E-Tablero

Tablero is a board game played with 7 identical tokens. Our project would be to create an electronic version of tablero, where the board is equipped with LEDs and sensors. The game would give players feedback on possible moves, illegal moves, and winning plays.

Bicycle turn signals

The idea for the bicycle turn signal includes a manually controlled switch to make a right or left turn. There is also a brake signal that indicates when the bike is decelerating. The turn signals and brake lights, are independent, and with the circuitry are mounted under the seat. The turn signal switch is connected to by an RF signal.

An automatic open and shut blind

A blind (a drop blind) will open and shut automatically by using temperature and luminance sensors when temperature and luminance reach a high level or a low level. This part can be programmed and a step motor will be used to wind up physically. Also, an automatic switchgear should be able to control details such as blind length or winding up velocity since total rotation of a step motor is proportional to pulse and rotation velocity is proportional to pulse per second.

Simon Says

The sensors are four momentary contact buttons, and the actuators are four corresponding LEDs of different colors and a speaker. Play consists of the microprocessor selecting a random sequence and playing it for the user. A single light and tone is played, and the user has a given time in which to match the light and tone by pushing the corresponding button. Then the sequence is repeated and has one light added to the end, and the user must repeat the longer sequence. Play continues until the user makes a mistake or the game ends.

Decision Criteria

Decision Matrix

We used a Decision Matrix for determining which project we wanted to proceed with, using a combination of 6 criteria. For each criteria, each project is assigned a number from 1-10 as mutually agreed upon by the group, with a greater number indicating a more positive argument for that project.

Fun - Will the project be fun to build? The more fun it is, the easier it will be to stay focused and work for extended periods of time.

Useful - Will the project have a practical purpose when it is done?

Innovative - How original is the idea?

Build-ability - How certain are we right now that we can actually build this?

Cost - How much do we anticipate the material cost to be? Less cost earns a greater score.

Difficulty - How difficult do we anticipate this project to be? Easier earns a greater score.

Result

The end result was a tie between Tablero and Bike signals. We arbitrarily decided on Tablero.
